Vendors Signal Feedback Cycle 1 (#22)
WICG/Realms-Initialization-Control: README.md

Not being able to secure the origin of the app against untrusted code really limits developers to inferior solutions that require making use of cross origin realms, which effectively limits how far the power of composability can really go.
Allowing such untrusted code to run in the origin of the app can allow it for example to freely interact with the DOM of the app, which isn't possible when embedded in a cross origin document, and when combined with this proposal, such interaction can be mitigated by the hosting app in a finally secure way. Since this example can be easily extended to many other use cases, it might become clear how such a proposal can unlock new power for web apps in the realm of secure composability and embedding of untrusted code.

## Considerations

> This section focuses on important details that were brought into consideration, as well as conclusions on how to address them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section focuses on details that were brought into consideration, as well as conclusions on how to address them.
```

While important for achieving design that's both good and acceptable by stake holders, these considerations are also expected to be later on refered to and integrated into relevant specs and browsers' implementations (Security and Privacy especially).

### Privacy

> This feature doesn't provide any information about the user, and hence doesn't have privacy aspects to consider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature doesn't provide any information about the user, and hence doesn't have privacy aspects to consider.
It is limited to Same Origin Realms therefore offers no new ways to track the user.
```

### Security

Here are some security risks to take into consideration when following this spec for implementation purposes:

#### Universal XSS

Since this proposal focuses on the thin line between same and cross origins, it may put SOP in danger if not implemented correctly.

This proposal enables any top-level document to execute remote scripts in same-origin realms.

If implementations somehow enable that execution to happen in cross-origin realms, that can enable cross-origin scripting in those realms.

Since such scenrio is the result of a browser level mistake, running cross-origin scripts like that can be abused by attackers against any origin they choose, making this a far more dangerous version of XSS known as Universal XSS.

Therefore it's important for implementations to get that part right, and for tests to throughly cover that possibility (this is similar to other powerful features that heavily rely on the same-origin policy, such as Service Workers).

#### Escalation to Code Execution

> From the perspective of an attacker, this proposal can also be thought of as a way to escalate a CSP directive set power to full code execution, because if the attacker doesn't find a way to introduce an XSS to the web app, but can somehow control parts of the response's headers, they can translate such capability to an effective XSS using this proposal, by simply configuring a CSP header with the proposed `init-realm` directive pointing to a remote script they control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the perspective of an attacker, this proposal can be thought of as a way to escalate the ability to modify the CSP directive to full code execution.
If the attacker doesn't find a way to introduce an XSS to the web app, but can somehow control the response headers, they can translate such capability to an effective XSS using this proposal, by setting a CSP header with the proposed `init-realm` directive pointing to a remote script they control.
```

In this proposal's current form, this in fact is more than just a security consideration, but perhaps an introduction of an unprecedented security concern, where being able to modify headers can result in XSS (which is possible today only via chaining such ability with other security issues in a vulnerable web app).

> In that context, it might be worth reflecting possible alternatives and their pros and cons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that context, it might be worth reflecting on possible alternatives and their pros and cons:
```

1. CSP (via header) - introduce `init-realm` via a CSP header (current proposal's state)

>    * PRO - a capability preserved to the web app (which is the entity expected to be capable of controling such power)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * PRO - a capability reserved to the web app (which is the entity expected to be capable of controling such power)
```

   * CON - if the web app mistakenly allows other entities to control headers, this feature can allow them to introduce XSS (unprecedented)
2. CSP (via meta) - introduce `init-realm` via a meta tag

>    * PRO - Better than a header in the sense that transitioning from a headers' setting capability to XSS is unprecedented and quite an escalation, but if attackers need to be able to modify the initial HTML of the app to transition to XSS, that is (1) more unlikely and (2) less of an escalation (if they can inject HTML tags, they might as well inject a script or an iframe).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * PRO - Better than a header in the sense that escalating from controlling headers to XSS is unprecedented, but if attackers need to be able to modify the initial HTML of the app to transition to XSS, that is (1) more unlikely and (2) less of an escalation (if they can inject HTML tags, they might as well inject a script or an iframe).
```
